AncientWarfare c2012-2013 John Cummens aka Shadowmage
Released under the General Public License v3.0 (or later)

Creating an NPC Type:
Create the NPCType
    set base params in NPCType
    add AI entries
    create npcVarsHelper in NpcType
        set any per-entity special crap in NPCVarsHelper onTick methods...
    it will self register for item creation

NPC types:

Soldiers:
    Footsoldier
    Medic
    Engineer
    Commander
    General

Civillians:
    Farmer (internal subtypes for dif. plants)
    Breeder (internal subtypes for dif. animals)
    Miner
    Builder ?
    Researcher ?
    Courier
    
Overview:

    Npcs will provide the cornerstone of the 'work' for Ancient Warfare.  Instead of relying upon blocks alone to 
accomplish goals, players may now recruit NPC's to aid them.  NPC's will be available to, in combination, allow for
near-complete automation of entire resource gathering and processing systems.  Combat-oriented  NPC's will also 
be available (Soldiers), allowing for faction-vs-faction warfare (player-vs-player, player-vs-npc, and npc-vs-npc).

    Interaction with NPC's will be kept simple, with each NPC having at _most_ ONE Gui for advanced interaction.
More advanced commands will be issued to NPC's with the aid of Command Batons.  These items will allow for a player to
command individual NPC's, as well as (at higher tiers) all friendly NPC's in the vicinity that are of the same type
as the main Baton target or specified NPC Type (in the Baton Gui).  The Command Baton will be used to 'link' an NPC
to his place of employment, town center (for food upkeep), and depository (for workers to deposit goods).  A Baton
may also be used to set the 'Home' of an NPC (an NPC will only wander a specified distance from their Home point),
and issue Patrol commands/add Patrol points to an existing Patrol path (Patrol ability is for Combat NPC's only).

    All NPC's will require occasional 'Upkeep' costs, which may differ depending upon the type and rank of the NPC.
Civilian NPC's (Civilians) will require less Upkeep than Soldiers, and higher ranks of either tye will also increase the Upkeep
costs.  For most NPC's Upkeep will consist of the NPC needing to occasionally visit the town hall to acquire food, 
though some advanced NPCs may have additional Upkeep requirements as well.

    Civilians may be designated with one work site, one deposit site, and one town-hall.  The type of NPC will
determine what work and deposit sites are acceptable, such as certain Civilians may accept 'deposit' sites as a work site
for transferrence of goods, other NPCs can only work at particular types of worksite (farmers on farms, miners in
mines).  Most Civilian NPC's will have an interaction GUI with a simple inventory, providing player access to whatever
goods the NPC may be working but not deposited.  The NPC inventory size may be linked to NPC rank.  Civilian work
time will vary depending upon rank -- higher quality workers will get more work done in a given period of time than 
lower quality workers.  Some VERY advanced work sites may require high-ranked workers in order to even function (low
ranked wokers will not be attachable).

    Civilians hook into the exising MC Village mechanics, allowing for nearby doors to be added to Village lists, as
well as seeking shelter in the nearest available village dwelling at night/in the rain.

    Goods-Transportation based Civilians will be made available -- these Civilians may have an IInventory (Tile entity
or Entity) assigned for their 'work-site'.  These NPCs will have item-stack based filters available in their interface
to designate what goods to pick-up in what quantities, or how much of a good to keep stocked in the depository (allowing
for the automation of things consuming resources).  Higher ranks will have more filter slots and more configurable
options available.  These NPCs are meant to take the place of the often-laggy (but awesome!) transport pipes and tubes 
provided by many mods (The theory being that one NPC carrying many STACKS of items is better than thousands of single
items running through tubes && the tube-block update-ticks necessary to support/route them). Advanced NPCs may be
available which provide multi-pickup/multi-destination abilities, allowing for a single NPC to manage more significant
portions of an automation system, and cutting down on the total number needed to accomplish automation.

    All Civilians must be linked to a Town-Hall Civic, or they will do nothing but wander around.  The reasoning for
this is two-fold.  Primarily to allow for NPCs to have a known place where they may take their Upkeep, and secondly to 
allow for a central place for a player to query the status and effectiveness of an NPC.  Stats will be kept about the
NPCs lifetime, nodes worked, product deposited, upkeep withdrawn, and times attacked/fled.  Higher-ranked Town-Halls will
allow for more workers to be assigned simultaneously (though there will be nothing from stopping the player from making
additional town halls--aside from the complexity and inefficiency of it).

    Combat NPC's (Soldiers) will have a substantially different feature set than Civilians.  Soldiers will come in
several varieties, and ranks in those varieties.  Soldier types will be available for basic melee combat (Foot-Soldier),
basic ranged combat (Archer), and even one trained in the use of Siege Engines (the aptly named Siege Engineer).  A few
combat-oriented utility types will also be provided, such as field-medics (Medic) and vehicle-repair services (Combat 
Engineer).  Command-Oriented Soldiers will also be available, in the form of the Commander and General.  Both provide
advanced abilities and cohesion to the Soldiers under their command, to different degrees.  These bonuses may include
aggregated/coordinated targeting abilities as well as conveying attack and defensive bonuses upon the troops under their
command.

    Melee oriented Combat NPCs will come in a variety of ranks, higher tiers being equipped with better equipment.
Higher ranks may also have better target selection abilities, and will be less prone to flee when at low health.  Higher
ranks may also come with special AI to allow for 'safe' combat with Creepers or other specialized mob types.

    Combat NPC's on vehicles will have limited ammo selection per-vehicle, however they will not consume vehicle
ammunition of these types when fired.  Players may optionally provide the specific NPC with ammo to use -- the soldier
will 'randomly' pick from the applicable ammo types in his inventory for the vehicle he is riding.  Higher ranks will
have greater proficiency on whatever vehicle they ride, while some vehicles may only be available to higher ranked (or
even specialized) Siege Engineers.

    Combat NPC's may be issued orders in several different ways.  The simplest of these would be merely having the
soldier follow you around -- while following a player, their 'aggro' range is reduced significantly (but still present),
enabling a player to 'lead' a soldier to a target.  Additionally, if a player has Command Baton equipped and attacks
a hostile or neutral target, the commanded soldier (and nearby--dep. on baton rank) will attack players' attack target.
And finally, the Commanders Flare Gun provides the ability for a Player commander to designate a single target, through
a launched 'flare', to ALL combat NPCs which can see the target -- NPCs will first attack any 'hostiles' in the designated
area before moving on to the surrounding structure and blocks.

    Recruitment costs for NPCs will vary depending upon type, but will generally consist of at least an initial food/upkeep
amount and whatever equipment the NPC will use in his line of work (soldiers need sword/armor, archers need bows, miners
will need pickaxes, etc...).  An NPC will not change ranks in his lifetime, though upgrade abilities are being considered 
(would require one-time upgrade cost of the new tier equipement, the old tier equiment would be returned).

    Upon death, all NPCs will drop their entire inventory, including the equipment given to them as a recruiting cost. If
slain by a Player, they will also provide an amount of experience relative to their rank/rarity.

    It is currently undecided if all NPCs will have an inventory, but it may well come to that--if nothing else than to 
allow a soldier to pick up the armor of a vanquished foe or fallen comrade.  At this point, soldiers would be enabled
to have a deposit site set in their AI -- this site may be a traditional block or a chest-cart (to enable mobile armies).






Civics System Overview:
    The Civics System will provide the interface layer between the Entity based NPCs and the Block based world around
them.  The Civics System will be provide Blocks and the means for players to designate an 'area' in which the block
will have control.  These blocks may be little more than storage areas, or complex control centers managing dozens of
workers and thousands of blocks of space.  Configuration of most Civic buildings will be controllable by the player--
so they may set custom bounds for their work area.  

    The Civics System is NOT a construction system -- It does not provide the structures or blocks the NPCs will need, 
it merely sets the bounding area that they will work in.  It may however be  employed IN the construction of buildings
(A Building-Site Civic will be made available, to facilitate the construction of Ancient Warfare Structures while in 
Survival Mode).

    A Town-Hall Civic will be available to players that can serve as a central depository if desired, but more
importantly allows for all NPCs in a given area to  have a place to withdraw their Upkeep costs.  Players will be
responsible for ensuring the Town-Hall has the goods needed by his NPCs, but many of the NPCs will have functions
geared towards helping on this goal (such as the ability for a Farmer to deposit his wheat directly to the Town-Hall).
The Town-Hall will likely be available in several different tiers, most likely with increased storage capcity and
worker support capacity.

    Civic types will be available to provide logic for at least the following functions:
* town hall, central depository/upkeep withdrawal area    
* plant farms (wheat, carrot, potato, reed, cactus, melon, pumpkin, mushrooms, and netherstalk, plugins for mods such as corn, flax?, etc)
* animal farms (cow, sheep, chicken, pig, horses?)
* tree farms (probably one per vanilla tree types with plugins for mods) 
* mining facilities -- a few different patterns, types, and ranks (determines max depth)
* ore processing facility -- must have furnaces (plugin for mod furnace extendsions), workers process ores to ingots/etc
* lumber processing facility -- concept WIP -- probably needs special? crafting bench to process wood to planks/sticks for other civics (at a bonus)
* basic crafting facility -- automate normal crafting table recipes with NPCs who will withraw the required goods from the town-hall/designated area, and deposit results into their deposit site
* research facility -- help automate the research process with workers (may require special research workers)
* siege engine crafting facilities -- engines/ammo/upgrades/other AW items, w/ automation

    Non logic-based civics will also provide designated areas for some advanced functions:
* dwellings -- provide a designated home building to specific Civilians.  They will not seek random shelter, but
        instead prefer their designated building.
* advanced depositories -- provide specialzed holding and routing functions for items (such as an armory,..concept WIP)            

    Many of the logic based blocks will funcion by occasionally scanning their designated area for blocks/entities 
that they consider important (will vary by Civic).  The maximum size of the area will often be determined by the rank of
the specific Civic -- higher ranks are often allowed to work larger areas.  



  
  
Civilian Buildings:
    Will have bounds set by the player up to x X z.  
    Sites will have a single block on the external edge of their bounds that acts as a 'control' block
        it maintains a relative x,y,z size/positioning of the site (relative to world bounds)        
    Player is responsible for cordoning off the area (fences/building around it/whatever)
    Player must also assign workers to the site (by having them follow, and 'attaching' to the site-block)
    Sites will maintain a list of their valid workable blocks.
        For a mine, the mine will scan the area down to y depth (set by mine rank/quality), constructing a map
            of the resources in the mine, as well as constructing a path to the major nodes from a central mine-shaft
            both maps will be stored in NBT (a mine will know it is invalid/moved when it has no NBT)
        For farms, will do an initial scan of 'farmable' blocks on the surface area of the 'farm', as well as occasional
            re-scans (every 1-5 minutes) to update new blocks/harvest targets for workers
        Smiths -- will maintain a list of the furnaces and crafting tables in the area, and the 'site' block will
            have slots to set the crafting as well as temporary storage room.