
New features since last test release:
Config Options:
    Tons of new options in the config file.
    World-gen config options moved entirely to world-gen config file (in the config/AWConfig directory)

Options GUI:
    Accessed by default with the F7 key. (keybind can be changed in MC keybind/options screen)
        Opens a GUI with configurable settings for render options
            Options should be self-explanatory, all should be functional.
        Has a button to go to the Keybinds setting screen
        
Keybind GUI:        
    Accessed through the Options GUI -> Keybinds button
        Opens a GUI to configure Ancient Warfare keybinds.
        These keybinds can duplicate vanilla keybinds -- it is up to the player to make
            sure no conflicts exist -- this system is used to allow a player to set the 
            drive-forward key to the same or different key than the walk-forward key.
            Other keys can also share keybinds with vanilla functions (such as space being fire/jump)
        Keybinds exist for all vehicle movement functions, direct ammo selection, manual aim adjustment, 
            enable/disable of auto-aim, and a keybind to open an ammo-select Gui for the a vehicle.

Team Control GUI
    Accessed by default with the F7 key. (keybind can be changed in MC keybind/options screen)
        Opens a GUI to allow for changing of team
            Gui also has controls for higher-ranked members to do team-administration
                'Advanced Controls' button available at rank 7 or higher
                Advanced controls has settings for alliances (non-hostile teams),
                accepting/denying applications by members,
                and changing rank/kicking members out of a team.
    All players are by default assigned team 0.  All players on team 0 are of rank 0.  There is no admin
        abilities for team 0.  Anyone may join it at any time.
    The first player to join a team is set at the highest rank (10).  Any subsequent members are not 
        auto-accepted, but must submit an application and be accepted by higher ranked members.
    Teams are automatically hostile to ALL other teams. In order to become mutually netural, BOTH teams must
        add the other to the 'non-hostile' teams list in the Advanced Teams Control gui.        
    Ranks are mostly cosmetic, aside from ranks 7+ having access to advanced controls.  You can only kick or change
        ranks on other members of lower ranks than your own.         

Vehicles:
    They are all in, and should be completely functional.  Many need balancing.
    Mount by right-clicking.  Dismount by right-clicking.
    Open the inventory/control GUI by shift-right clicking.
        Inventory GUI has slots for storage, ammo, upgrades, and armor.
            button to 'pack' the vehicle back into an item.  It preserves vehicle health, drops inventory.
            button to view 'stats'....mostly debug information, will be removed/replaced with more pertinent info
    Ammo Select GUI is accessed by default with the 'v' key.  It brings up a simple GUI with a list of applicable
        ammunition types and quantities.  Simply click on an ammo to select it and close the GUI, or click the
        done button to cancel selection.
    Airburst ammo for hwacha is a WIP -- it needs adjusted to be more effective.
    Basic overlay to show basic stats (health, ammo)
    Advanced overlay to show advanced stats AND render a predicted trajectory line (prediction should be 100% accurate before
        the application of accuracy calculations)   
    Overlays are toggle-able through the Options GUI (default 'F7')     

Npcs:
    Basic types partially implemented.  Soldier, archer, siege-engine driver, farmer, miner, lumberjack.
    Many stats are not currently set by type/rank, but will be in the future (health, work-speed). 
    Currently they all use the same texture -- this will be changed in the future.  
    Right-click to command an NPC to follow you.  Right click again to tell him to stop.
    A command baton allows for setting of advanced npc waypoints (work/home/deposit/patrol path)
        right click the baton to set its 'command' (or clear current npc target)
        LEFT click/attack an entity to set the 'target'
        LEFT click/attack a BLOCK to ISSUE the command.    
            when clicked, NPC will add the block clicked on to its appropriate waypoint type
                (e.g. set home/work/deposit points, or add a patrol point)
        commands to clear waypoints function the same -- set the command, and then attack/LEFT click
            on any block to issue the 'clear' command.  
        If issued an invalid site for work or deposit, it will function as a 'clear' command.              
    Npc workers will automatically seek out appropriate work-sites that have work to do.  They will work at
        that site until it has no work, or they are otherwise unable (night time, inventory full).
    NOTE -- there is an INTENTIONAL delay in place when workers are checking to see if they have work to do.
        if it doesn't look like they are listening to your command -- give them a few moments.  It should take
        no more than a few seconds for the NPC to respond to the work command.  This applies for work broadcast
        by work-sites as well.  The next time the NPC updates his work-ai priority, he will head for the
        site broadcast/commanded, if valid.   NPCs will also pause for a moment when moving between two
        work-sites that have work (after they finish the first, they will head home/wander a bit before heading
        to the next site)
    A player-issued work-command will attempt to force-set the CURRENT work-site -- if valid, the NPC will
        work at that site until he cannot anymore--at which point he will commence 'looking' for work.
    Non-combat NPCs will seek-shelter at night the same as vanilla villagers.  They will add nearby doors
        to village door lists, and aid in the expansion of vanilla village bounds.
    All NPCs have a 'home point' that is automatically set when they are spawned.  NPCs will not wander beyond
        a certain range of this site -- though objectives may temporarily take them further away.  This home
        site may be cleared manually through the use of a command baton / clear-home setting                 
    Currently there is no manual list for target addition, though I plan on coming up with some system to handle
        adding mobs from other mods.
    Soldiers will not target non-combat NPCs, nor will they currently attack enemy civics (coming in the future)        
    
    
Civics:
    Basic civics in place with basic functionality for wheat/carrot/potato farms, oak tree farm, and a basic
        mine.
    Civics are placed similar to scanning a building.  Click the first corner, click the second corner, and then click
        where you want the control block placed.  Use shift-click to 'offset by side hit' (get the block clicked IN and not ON)
    Wheat/potato farms MUST include both the tilled-earth blocks AND the air block above them in their bounds.
    Tree farms will work the bounds selected as well as 16 blocks ABOVE the selected area.
    Mine bounds need only be on the surface.  It construct a shaft up through the minimum bound selected.    
    Most civics size is limited, currently most are limited to 10/12/16 blocks in size, though 
        I will be expanding this in the future with the inclusion of higher ranked civics that
        can work larger areas and have more workers.        
    Building Construction Civics -- these work much like the 'ticked builder', except they need a worker in order to function
        currently, they are classified as a MINE, and need MINERS to work them (this will be changed in the future, only set
        as such for debug purposes)(these will be the survival mode means for building construction)      
    Civics currently all have an 9-slot inventory, accessed through right-clicking.  Most civics will place
        harvested materials into the inventory of the worker -- only keeping the seeds/saplings needed to continue working.    
    Farms need plantable materials in order to commence planting -- wheat farms need seeds, oak tree farms need saplings, etc.
    Tree farms currently work a 'random' selection of blocks for planting (actually it is pos.x%4==0 && pos.z%4==0).  As such
        the actual blocks worked for planting  will be inconsistent between 'copies' of a farm, unless placed
        specifically at intervals of 4 blocks.
            

Scanning and Templates:
New features:
    Vehicle scanning -- will save vehicles into templates.  For an example -- scan one!
    NPC scanning -- will save npcs into templates.  Same as above -- examples provided by doing it.
    Entity Scanning -- scan paintings, item-frames, passive mobs, and mine-carts.  Scan one to see the exported rule setup.
        item-frames will scan and maintain the item-data for the item within (including NBT)(is ugly in templates though...)
    No items are scanned aside from item-frames.  (May investigate in the future, but it causes large/ugly templates)
        this means chests/furnaces/brewing stands will be EMPTY.  Chests may optionally be assigned loot
        through special loot rules. (not a new feature..just an explanation)
    New Gui layout (scroll-bar)
    Override settings have changed:
        Now there are only buttons to enable/disable spawning of vehicles/npcs/gates entirely,
        and a selection box to set a team-override (to spawn hostile structures/structures of a specific team)               
    Civic scanning -- will save civic type and local bounds into templates. Does not save inventory.           
            
        
        
        
        
Needs testing:
General
* Item tooltips and descriptions.  Too much information, too little information, just right?
* GUI tooltips -- hold the mouse over buttons to see advanced context info (only certain buttons)
    (notably, advanced options buttons in team control and creative builder items, a few others...)
* config options, tons of them.  Most have been tested during development, but not all.

Vehicles -- pretty much all of it.  
* I need to know of any crash-related issues, any client-server synch issues with ammo/upgrades/armor/stats (e.g. something _should_ be working, but is spotty/might work after reloading).
* Also need NPC interaction tested.  
* The siege-engineer should be able to ride a vehicle, shoot default ammo, aim the vehicle as needed, 
    and move the vehicle to follow players/targets.  
* Need ammo types tested, including 'oversized' ammunitions (e.g. 45kg round in small catapult/trebuchet)
* Need the multi-bullet options tested when using lighter ammos (trebuchet/catapult).    
* Play around with the auto-aim, let me know if there are times when it doesn't follow the rendered trajectory.
* Need SMP interaction tested -- how does vehicle movement look over LAN and WAN play (lan server/remote server)
* Feedback on cluster and grape-shot type ammos (cluster explode on contact, grape-shot is more shot-gun like)
* Feedback on movement speed for vehicles -- does it feel appropriate for the vehicle type?
* Examine the effects of vehicle tier/material level on performance -- do the gains/decreases seem appropriate?
* test persistence of health when packing up and re-spawning a damaged vehicle.

TEAMS:
* all of it.  NPCs and vehicles should auto-assign to the team of the player placing them (or optionally the team
    override from a creative-mode constructing item).
* NPCs are automatically hostile against teams other than their own.  Try placing an NPC while on team 0, and then
    switching to a different team--the NPC should go hostile on you.  If you switch back to team 0/the placing team,
    the NPC should cease hostility shortly.   
* test changing teams.
* test interaction with vehicles and NPCs when on different teams
* test adding/removing members, changing ranks, accepting/denying applicants.
* test non-hostile team functions.  If you are on team 1, and add team 2 as non-hostile, 
    they should no longer show as red, and your NPCs should no longer attack them
    Team two will need to add you as non-hostile for their NPCs to stop attacking you.     

NPCs:
* interaction with baton.  All baton commands should work, including AOE setting (only sets AOE for same target type as the 'main' target)
* work -- NPCs should head to work if work is available.  They should head to shelter at night and during the rain.    
* combat NPCs should seek targets on their own.  It is not range-based, but more 'aggro-list' based (the longer a target has been visible, the higher on the list it will be)
* combat NPCs should still folow the player if targets are far away -- but should stop following the player to attack close (20 blocks or less) targets
* siege-engineer should dismount his vehicle if any enemy targets are within 10 blocks/min attack distance (zero for battering ram)
* test that NPCs 'home' stuff works -- they should try and stay within 20'ish blocks of home unless actively working/pursuing a target.
* npc attack damage should vary by rank (or ammo type for archers).
* test that archers aren't too OP.
* test that archers won't shoot if friendlies are in direct line-of-site of their target
            
Structures/scanning:
* test vehicle scanning, it should maintain ammo/upgrades/armor during the scan, as well as orientation.
* test npc scanning.  It should maintain npc type information, but will not maintain inventory (tools are set by type, and should persist)
* test misc. NPC scanning -- item frames, paintings, mine-carts of all types, and passive mobs (sheep/cow/chicken/pig/dog/cat)            
* test civic scanning -- it should maintain type and bounds information for the civics scanned (it does not query internal state, such as for a Civic Builder block that is halfway done)
* test advanced template rules -- swap rules, biome exclusion, special-rule-datas (chests, preserve blocks)

Structure/building:
* test that the overrides work as they are supposed to.
    e.g. checkboxes should enable/disable their features, and the team-override should cause any spawned npcs/vehicles/civics blocks
        to use the forced team number (for valid numbers... -1 is the default 'no override')

Civics:
* they should _work_ but are not complete.
* civics should scan the area provided by their bounds, providing points to workers for any 'work' they find
* the mine currently does not check to see if it has ladders/torches before placing them (rather, it does check, but places them regardless).  This function will be included in the future
    and all civics will be required to possess the materials they are attempting to place/use.
* test the worker auto-work/routing function.  A work-site that has work will broadcast to nearby eligible workers, and if there is
    at least one nearby worker without work, he should head over shortly.  
* NOTE -- civics are very much a WIP, and quite a few things are simply not implemented yet/have not been looked into/have not been started.
    as such, don't bother reporting issues with these unless they are SEVERE (crashing/corrupting things)      
