Change Log AW-1.1.044-beta-MC164
* FIX (NPCs) - Fix a crash potential crash related to NPCs and healing.
* FIX (Research) - Fix a client-side crash that could occur when attempting
    to view recipes with disabled research, or disabled recipes.
* FIX (Automation Module) - Fix a NPE error in Civics that could cause crashes.
* FIX (Crafting) - Fix issue related to buckets (duplication/deletion) in the auto-crafting station.
* FIX (Structure Module) - Gate spawning items should now clear their cached location after placing a gate --
    fixes issues of gate items becoming un-useable in creative mode after spawning the first gate.
* FIX (Structure Module) - Add rotation mapping for:
    Nether Brick Stairs
    Trapdoors
    Piston Extensions
    Hay Bales
* FIX (Structure Module) - Add Inventory item mapping for:
    Lit Redstone Lamp (unlit lamp)  
    Tall grass (seeds)
    Dead Bush (seeds)
    Cauldron (meta remap)

*NEW (NPCs) - Add config option to disable the use of backpacks as an item.
    
*NEW (Structure Module) - Advanced Spawner

*NEW (Structure Module) - Template System.  
    Updated/back ported the new template system I was designing for 1.7 to the 1.6 branch.
    Can load templates from the old system (however, does not load entities, or some of the other special data)
    This template system has many major advantages over the previous system:
        Plugin system for easy addition of more mod-handled blocks and entities 
            (plugins need to written by the original mod author, or someone knowledgeable
            with that mods' source)
        Ability to handle complex tile-entity / nbt based blocks. (command blocks, mob spawners)
        Improved ability to handle complex Entities (NBT tag support)
        Selectable and configurable validation types.  Structures can now be flagged to spawn as:
             Ground (normal)
             Underground (dungeons/etc, non-visible from surface)
             Water (floating on water -- floating islands / boats)
             Island (in water with base extending to ocean floor)
             Underwater (sunken ruins, ship-wrecks)
             Harbor (partially on land and over water)
             Sky (floating in the sky -- flying temples/cloud palaces/whatever)
        Greaty improved structure placement validation, including:
            Leveling / clearing validation with per-template block-targets list, and global/configurable 'skippables' blocks lists
            Duplicate structure detection / minimum duplicate range specify-able in templates on a per-template basis.
            Structures may be flagged as unique to only generate a single time.
            Much improved detection for structure intersection (with either other AW structures, or those added by other mods)
        User-definable biome aliases -- ability to specify different structure spawns for 
            bop.meadows and highlands.meadows
        Ability to load templates from .zip files (template packs)
    Plugin is available for JAS (Just Another Spawner) to enable structure-specific mob-spawning.
    
    NOTE If you had previously used the template system with custom templates, you likely need to
        re-scan these templates into the new format.  While the new template system will _load_ old templates 
        (and export a converted new-format copy of that template), it does not include support for placing entities
        or many of the other complex features from the old system. If you wish to retain your structures, create a 
        'building' world prior to updating to this version, place all structures, and rescan them with the new template system. 
        Any 'old' format templates found in the /include directory will have a converted new-format copy placed 
        into the /export directory.  From there you may copy the new format templates from the /export directory and
        overwrite the old-format copies in the /include directory (Make sure to back up your originals first, just in case
        something did not convert properly).
    
    NOTE This release does not include any templates.  Template packs are available as separate downloads.
        There should be template packs available which include basic world-gen structures, and some structures
        for survival mode (drafing station) use.  Additional structure packs will be made available over time.
                         
        
