New features since last test release:
 
Gates 
* basic gates implemented. Four types available:
    Basic vertical -- same as old gates
    Single Slide -- opens in one direction, towards the first point clicked
    Double Slide -- opens from the middle (or close to it), towards both directions
    Rotating -- drawbridge style. Closed is vertical position, open is horizontal. Opens towards the
        direction faced when placing the gate.
* in order to build a gate, left click on the first corner, left click on the second coner, and then right click (anywhere) to 'build' the gate
    a bounding box should be rendered to show the position the gate will be built in        
* all gates currently have 40HP base
* gates may be interacted with through right-click.  On larger gates, you will need to be near the center of the gate.
    When most gates are 'open' the hitbox will be present on the top 1/2 block of the gate for interaction.
    The drawbridge while open, you must still interact closer to the origin of the gate.
* gates may be interacted with through redstone.
    Gates will activate on the 'on' pulse of a redstone signal, but only if not already powered
* gates powered with redstone are 'locked' and may not be activated by right click or    
* drawbridge type gates will not open/lower unless they are completely clear to do so            
          
Structures/Builders:
* added gates to structure scanning, templates, and builders          
            
Pathfinding:
* added basic prelimanary support for 'all' blocks through basic block bounds testing.
    this should more accurately test blocks for being solid and pathable/non pathable,
    including most/all mod blocks.   
* npc pathfinding can use gates (excluding drawbridges, only if not locked and on proper team)   
   
Vehicles:
* adjusted turret rotation of turreted vehicles while turning the vehicle base -- base rotation
    should no longer interfere with the turret.   
   
Npcs:
* adjusted NPC aiming ability on vehicles -- NPCs should be willing to fire at moving targets much more often
    and accurately.   
* NPCs can interact with any 'vertical' gate (not the drawbridge), and they will choose paths using these gates
    just as they would doors (as long as the gates team is mutually non-hostile and not locked with redstone).
* add Non-Player Teams for NPCs (WIP) -- these are teams 16 & 17 (16 is 'friendly' 17 is 'hostile')
    these teams are currently only accessible by spawning NPCs from edited templates.
    NPCs on these teams will not require upkeep, and cannot be interacted with by players.  NPCs on the 'friendly'
    team can be converted to a players team through left-clicking the NPC with a command baton while the player has
    rations in his inventory sufficient to cover the NPCs upkeep needs.    

Couriers:
* Couriers and Routing Slips now include sided inventory interaction.  When specifying a routing point
    the side clicked on will be the interaction side if it is a sided inventory.  E.g. clicking on the
    side of a furnace will get the fuel slot, top is input, bottom is output.  Clicking on a chest will
    still get the entire chest.  This _should_ accomodate any mod-related machines/blocks that implement
    vanilla ISidedInventory.  The side-interacted with has been added to the mouse-over tooltip for the
    block in the Routing Slip GUI.
* Fixed an issue in routing slip GUI where the top routing point would not move down when the - button was
    pressed.    

Civics:
* added bounds rendering to warehouse
* changed block validation for warehouse expansion blocks, they must now have no more than 2 other
    adjacent warehouse expansion blocks (hint: build in rows)    
* civics now implement sided inventory interaction (vanilla ISidedInventory)
    any civics with resources will have some of their inventory dedicated to 'resource' slots
    these resource slots will only accept valid resource items for the work site (e.g. wheat farm
    resource slots should only accept seeds).  Work sites will fill up their resource slots before
    placing any extras into normal inventory.  This is to aid in automation with couriers and other
    mods, by essentially separating the inventories.
* civic resource slots are accessed through the top side of the block
* normal inventory is accessed through the side(s) for work-sites, otherwise it should default to
    all sides.
* on work sites, bottom side currently accesses 'normal' inventory

Item Interaction
* Changed again -- hopefully for a more unified method
   Structure Scanner
        Left Click -- set first bound, set second bound, set build key and facing (shift) to offset position
        Right Click -- scan and process when positions are set, or (shift) clear current positions
    Structure Builder(s)
        Right Click -- open GUI or (shift) construct building
    Civic w/Bounds
        Left Click -- set first bound, set second bound
        Right Click -- place civic block on block clicked when positions set, or if not set && shift -- clear bounds
    Civic block only
        Right Click -- place civic block on block clicked
    Gate Spawner                                         
        Left Click -- set first bound, set second bound
        Right Click -- construct gate or (shift) clear bounds
    Command Baton
        Left Click -- Entity or Block -- execute command
        Right Click -- Open GUI or (shift) clear all following NPCs
    Routing Slip
        Left Click -- add routing point then open GUI
        Right Click -- open GUI
    Vehicle Spawner
        Right Click -- spawn entity
    NPC Spawner
        Right Click -- spawn entity
* Item tooltips for clickable items have had clear steps added to the info to show current actions.        