New features since last test release:
/********** 03-19-14 **********/

* NEW (Major) - New Structure Module and template system.
    This system completely replaces the old template and world-gen system.  The 
    template format has changed substantially -- old templates will no longer
    work, but a means to convert to the new format has been included.
    
    The new system includes more complete support for vanilla blocks (all of them),
    an easily extensible plugin-system for adding support for mod-added-blocks/entities,
    a much improved world-generation validation system, as well as an improved scanning
    gui that will allow you to completely fill out the template validation at scan-time.
    In addition, world generation has much improved selection and placement-validation,
    including full structure-intersect testing (no more structures cutting into others),
    and target block testing (should fix issues of structures cutting into any non-naturally
    generated blocks). 
    
    Old format templates in the /include directory will automatically be 
    converted the first time you start the game with the new mod 
    version installed.  The converted templates will be placed in the /export
    directory.  In order to finish the update, you will need to exit minecraft,
    and manually copy and overwrite the templates from /export to /included 
    (make sure to backup your originals first in case there were problems during
    conversion).    
        
    You WILL need to setup world-generation again.  World generation validation settings
    are now stored per-structure, in the template itself.  There is a section/header for
    'validation' that contains all of the validation settings for that structure.  Several
    different types of validation are available -- some with additional options that must be
    specified in the validation data block.
    
    The validation types available are:
    ground (normal validation type)
    underground (completely underground, eg dungeons)   
    water (floating on water, eg boats)
    island (touches bottom of ocean and protrudes from surface)
    underwater (completely submerged)
    harbor (partially on land and water)
    sky (floating in the sky, not touching ground at all)
    
    underground, water, island, underwater, and sky all have additional validation
    parameters that must be set in the validation block -- the best way to see the format
    for these is to scan a structure and set it to that validation type. 
    
    World-generation uses the same type of setup for cluster value and weight as the
    previous system -- so any values you had set there should work -similarly- in the new
    system (the exceptions would be where the new validation would cause differences in
    actual placement / number of validated and generated structures).

* NEW -- Monster Spawner placing tool.  Has a simple GUI to select the mob.  Uses config file
    to determine what mobs to exclude.  Default excluded mobs are any vanilla mob that would
    cause a crash.  Admins will need to alter the list to suit whatever mod-pack they are using.
    Loads the mob-list @ runtime, so it should show _all_ registered/spawnable mobs except for
    those in the exclusions list.  (the 1.7.2+ version of this item also allows for editing all
    of the spawner data-fields, including the necessity to have players nearby, the player-check range,
    max spawns, etc).  The config options for the exlusion settings can be found in the 
    AncientStructures.cfg file in your main config directory.
* NEW -- Added the ability to disable the use of backpacks via config file.  Because the
    backpacks are used in recipes, I could not remove the items -- however, the new config
    option disables the ability to open the backpack GUI, and essentially turns the backpack
    item into a crafting component. This is controlled server side, so even if a client 
    changed their config it would still be disabled.
    The config option is labeled "backpacks_enabled"
* FIX -- Fix an issue where buckets would be duplicated and thrown into the world from the 
    alchemy station when crafting cement.  It will still drop the bucket into the world if
    no room is available in the input inventory.
* FIX -- Fix an issue in the auto-crafting station where it would eat buckets from any recipes
    that had buckets of water / lava.  The crafting-station should now return an empty bucket
    into the input grid (or drop on ground if no space is available).        